{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Set up the Learning VM\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Before beginning, you may want to use the MD5 sum provided at the VM download page to verify your download. On Mac OS X and *nix systems, you can use the command {\f1 md5 learning_puppet_vm.zip} and compare the output to the text contents of the {\f1 learning_puppet_vm.zip.md5} file provided on the download page. On Windows systems, you will need to download and use a tool such as the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=11533"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Microsoft File Checksum Integrity Verifier
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Get an up-to-date version of your virtualization software. We suggest using either VirtualBox or a VMware application appropriate for your platform. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
VirtualBox
}}}
 is free and available for Linux, OS X, and Windows. VMware has several desktop virtualization applications, including {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.vmware.com/products/fusion/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
VMWare Fusion
}}}
 for Mac and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.vmware.com/products/workstation/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
VMware Workstation
}}}
 for Windows.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab The Learning VM's Open Virtualization Archive format must be {\i imported} rather than opened directly. Launch your virtualization software and find an option for {\i Import} or {\i Import Appliance}. (This will usually be in a {\i File} menu. If you cannot locate an {\i Import} option, please refer to your virtualization software's documentation.)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab {\i Before} starting the VM for the first time, you will need to adjust its settings. We recommend allocating 4GB of memory for the best performance. If you don't have enough memory on your host machine, you may leave the allocation at 3GB or lower it to 2GB, though you may encounter stability and performance issues. Set the {\i Network Adapter} to {\i Bridged}. Use an {\i Autodetect} setting if available, or accept the default Network Adapter name. (If you started the VM before making these changes, you may need to restart the VM before the settings will be applied correctly.) If you are unable to use a bridged network, we suggest using the port-forwarding instructions provided in the troubleshooting guide.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab Start the VM. When it is started, make a note of the IP address and password displayed on the splash page. Rather than logging in directly, we highly recommend using SSH. On OS X, you can use the default Terminal application or a third-party application like iTerm. For Windows, we suggest the free SSH client {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.putty.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
PuTTY
}}}
. Connect to the Learning VM with the login {\f1 root} and password you noted from the splash page. (e.g. {\f1 ssh root@<IPADDRESS>}) Be aware that it might take several minutes for the services in the PE stack to fully start after the VM boots. Once you're connected to the VM, we suggest updating the clock with {\f1 ntpdate pool.ntp.org}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 6.\tx360\tab You can access this Quest Guide via a webserver running on the Learning VM itself. Open a web broswer on your host and enter the Learning VM's IP address in the address bar. (Be sure to use {\f1 http://<ADDRESS>} for the Quest Guide, as {\f1 https://<ADDRESS>} will take you to the PE console.)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Learning VM Troubleshooting\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For the most up-to-date version of this troubleshooting information, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppet-quest-guide/blob/master/troubleshooting.md"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
check the GitHub repository
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 The cowsay package won't install\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Learning VM version 2.29 has an error in the instructions for this quest. The cowsay package declaration should include {\f1 provider => 'gem'}, rather than {\f1 ensure => 'gem'}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you continue to get puppet run failures related to the gem, you can install the cached version manually: {\f1 gem install /var/cache/rubygems/gems/cowsay-0.2.0.gem}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 I completed a task, but the quest tool doesn't show it as complete\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The quest tool uses a series of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://serverspec.org/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Serverspec
}}}
 tests for each quest to track task progress. Certain tasks simply check your bash history for an entered command, so it's possible that you entered a valid alternate version of the command that simply wasn't recognized by the check.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 It is also possible that we have written the test for a task in a way that is too restrictive and doesn't correctly capture a valid syntactical variation in your Puppet code or another relevant file. You can check the specific matchers by looking at a quest's spec file in the {\f1 /usr/src/puppet-quest-guide/tests} directory. If you find an issue here, please let us know by sending an email to learningvm@puppetlabs.com.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you're willing to do a little archaeology, you can find the tests we use to validate that quests can be completed in the {\f1 /usr/src/puppet-quest-guide/tests/test_tests} directory. These aren't written for legibility and use alternate methods such as {\f1 sed} and the PE API to complete tasks, but they might offer some inspiration if you're stuck on a task. (Note that the test script for the Application Orchestrator quest is currently incomplete.)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Password Required for the Quest Guide\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Learning VM's Quest Guide is accessible at {\f1 http://<VM's IP Address>}. Note that this is {\f1 http} and not {\f1 https} which is reserved for the PE console. The PE console will prompt you for a password, while no password is required for the Quest Guide. (The Quest Guide includes a password for the PE console in the Power of Puppet quest: {\b admin/puppetlabs})\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 I can't find the VM password\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The password to log in to the VM is generated randomly and will be displayed on the splash page displayed on the terminal of your virtualization software when you start the VM.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you are already logged in via your virtualization software's terminal, you can use the following command to view the password: {\f1 cat /var/local/password}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If the password is not displayed on the splash page on startup, it is possible that some error occured during the startup process. Restarting the VM should regenerate this page with a valid password.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Does the Learning VM work on vSphere, ESXi, etc.?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Possibly, but we don't currently have the resources to test or support the Learning VM on these platforms.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 I cannot connect to the PE console\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 It may take some time after the VM is started before all the Puppet services are fully started. If you recently started or restarted the VM, or restarted any services in the PE stack, please wait a few minutes before you try to access the PE console.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Because the Learning VM's puppet services are configured to run in an environment with restricted resources, they are more prone to crashes than a production PE installation.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can check the status of puppet services with the following command:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \f1 systemctl --all | grep pe-\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you notice any stopped puppet-related services (e.g. pe-console-services), double check that you have sufficient memory allocated to the VM and available on your host, then use the following script to restart these services in the correct order:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \f1 restart_pe_services.sh\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 My Puppet run fails!\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 There are several common reasons for a Puppet run to fail.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If a syntax error is indicated, please correct the specified file. Note that due to the way syntax is parsed, an error may not always be on the line indicated. If you can't locate an error on the line indicated in the error message, check preceeding lines for missing commas or unmatched delimiters such as parentheses, brackets, or quotation marks.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you get an error along the lines of {\f1 Error 400 on SERVER: Unknown function union...} it is likely because the {\f1 puppetlabs-stdlib} module has not been installed. This module is a dependency for many modules, and provides a set of common functions. If you are running the Learning VM offline, you cannot rely on the Puppet Forge's dependency resolution. We have this module and all other modules required for the Learning VM cached, with instructions to install them in the Power of Puppet quest. If that installation fails, you may try adding the {\f1 --force} flag after the {\f1 --ignore-dependencies} flag.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you see an issue including {\f1 connect(2) for "learning.puppetlabs.vm" port 8140} this generally indicates that the {\f1 pe-puppetserver} service is down. See the section above for instructions on checking and restarting PE services.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Similarly, an error including {\f1 Failed to find facts from PuppetDB at learning.puppetlabs.vm:8140} generally indicates that the {\f1 pe-puppetdb} service is down. Again, refer to the section above for instructions on checking and restarting PE services.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 I can't import the OVA\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Ensure that you have an up-to-date version of your virtualization software installed. Note that the "check for updates" feature of VirtualBox may not always work as expected, so check the website for the most recent version.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Ensure that virtualization extensions enabled in the BIOS. The steps to do this will be specific to your system, will generally available online.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you are using Mac OS X and see {\f1 Unable to retrieve kernel symbols}, {\f1 Failed to initialize monitor device}, or {\f1 Internal error}, please refer to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://kb.vmware.com/selfservice/microsites/search.do?language=en_US&cmd=displayKC&externalId=2061791"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
this VMWare knowledge base page
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 The Learning VM has no IP address or the IP address will not respond.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If your network connection has changed since you loaded the VM, it's possible that your IP address is different from that displayed on the Learning VM splash screen. Log in to the VM via the virtualization directly (rather than SSH) and use the {\f1 facter ipaddress} command the check the current address. If you continue to get an no IP address or an invalid IP address, restarting the VM is generally the quickest way to ensure that the network services are correctly reset. (Unfortunately restarting the network service directly isn't always reliable.)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Some network configurations may still prevent you from accessing the Learning VM. If this is the case, we recommend that you speak to your site network administrator to see if there are any firewall rules, proxies, or DHCP server setting that might be preventing you from accessing the VM.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If networking continues to cause trouble, you can connect to the Learning VM via port forwarding. Change your VM's network adapter to NAT, and configure port forwarding as follows:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \f1 Name   -   Protocol - HostIP -   HostPort - GuestIP - GuestPort\line
SSH        TCP        127.0.0.1  2222                 22\line
HTTP       TCP        127.0.0.1  8080                 80\line
HTTPS      TCP        127.0.0.1  8443                 443\line
GRAPHITE   TCP        127.0.0.1  8090                 90\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Once you have set up port forwarding, you can use those ports to access the VM via ssh ({\f1 ssh -p 2222 root@localhost}) and access the Quest Guide and PE console by entering {\f1 http://localhost:8080} and {\f1 https://localhost:8443} in your browser address bar.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 I can't scroll up in my terminal\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Learning VM uses a tool called tmux to allow us to display the quest status. You can scroll in tmux by first hitting control-b, then [ (left bracket). You will then be able to use the arrow keys to scroll. Press q to exit scrolling.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Running the VM in VirtualBox, I encounter a series of "Rejecting I/O input from offline devices"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You may try reducing the VM's processors to 1 and disabling the "I/O APIC" option in the system section of the settings menu. Be aware, however, that this might result in {\i very} slow start times for services in the PE stack.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Still need help?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If your puppet runs still fail after trying the steps above, check the Puppet Enterprise {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://docs.puppetlabs.com/pe/latest/release_notes_known_issues.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Known Issues
}}}
 page or feel free to contact us at learningvm@puppetlabs.com. Please include details of your host OS, virtualization software and version, and any details of the site network configuration where you're running the VM (for example, whether there is a proxy or restrictive firewall rules). If there are logs relevant to the issue, you can use scp from your host machine to copy them to a local directory:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \f1 scp root@<IPADDRESS>:/var/log/messages messages\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 On a Windows system wtih {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://tartarus.org/~simon/putty-snapshots/htmldoc/Chapter5.html#pscp"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
PuTTY PSCP installed
}}}
, you can use {\f1 pscp} from a command prompt:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \f1 pscp root@<IPADDRESS>:/var/log/messages messages\par}
}
